Lab 3 Part 0  — Preparing the Wazuh SIEM Server

Fixing Sudo, Root Access & System Recovery Issues Before Starting the Lab
Overview
Before beginning the official tasks in Lab 3, I first needed to install and configure all required virtual machines for the SIEM environment:

pfSense Firewall
Windows Client Machine
Ubuntu Wazuh Server (SIEM Server)
These machines form the core of the lab environment.
However, during the setup of the Ubuntu Wazuh Server, I encountered several system‑level issues that prevented me from starting Lab 3 properly.

This section documents the troubleshooting and repair process I completed before beginning the actual lab instructions.

Problem Summary
When preparing the Ubuntu server for Wazuh installation, the following issues were discovered:

sudo was not installed
su - failed with Authentication failure
The root account had no password
The user account (joey) was not in the sudo group
The system could not install or modify packages
The Wazuh installer could not run
These issues made it impossible to begin Lab 3’s SIEM configuration steps.

Step 1 — Boot Into Recovery Mode
To regain administrative access, the VM was rebooted into Ubuntu’s Recovery Mode.

Restart the VM

Open the GRUB menu (Shift/Esc during boot)

Select:

Advanced options for Ubuntu
Choose the entry ending with:

(recovery mode)
From the Recovery Menu, select:

root – Drop to root shell prompt
This provides root access without requiring a password.

Step 2 — Remount Filesystem as Read/Write
Recovery mode mounts the system read‑only. To make changes:

mount -o remount,rw /
Step 3 — Set a Root Password
The root account had no password, which is why su - failed earlier.

passwd
A new root password was created successfully.

Step 4 — Install sudo
The system was missing the sudo package entirely. It was installed using the root shell:

apt update
apt install sudo -y
Step 5 — Add User “joey” to the sudo Group
To allow the normal user to run administrative commands:

usermod -aG sudo joey
Step 6 — Reset Joey’s User Password
After rebooting, sudo still failed because the user password was incorrect.
The password was reset from the root shell:

su -
passwd joey
Password updated successfully.

Step 7 — Verify sudo Access
Logged back in as joey and tested:

sudo ls
The password prompt worked, confirming:

sudo is installed
user is in the sudo group
authentication works correctly
The system is now fully repaired and ready for the actual Lab 3 tasks.

Skills Learned
Using Ubuntu Recovery Mode for system repair
Resetting root and user passwords
Installing missing system packages
Managing sudo permissions
Understanding Linux boot and recovery workflows
Preparing a server for SIEM deployment

