Lab 3 – Part 1: Wazuh All‑In‑One Installation

Overview
Part 1 of Lab 3 involved installing the Wazuh All‑In‑One SIEM stack on my Ubuntu Server VM.
This required downloading the installer, resolving multiple command‑execution issues, and running the installation with the correct flags.

This documentation explains exactly what I did, the problems I encountered, the commands I used, and what I learned from each step.

Step‑by‑Step Process, Issues, Fixes & Lessons Learned
1. Attempting to Download the Wazuh Installer
What I Tried
I attempted to download the Wazuh installer using curl:

curl -v -0 https://packages.wazuh.com/4.7/wazuh-install.sh
Issue
The command didn’t work because I accidentally used:

-0 (zero) ❌
instead of
-O (capital O) ✔
Curl treated -0 as an invalid flag, so the file never downloaded.

Fix
I corrected the command:

curl -v -O https://packages.wazuh.com/4.7/wazuh-install.sh
This successfully downloaded the script.

What I Learned
Curl flags are case‑sensitive.
-O saves the file with its original name.
A single character typo can break an entire workflow.
Always re‑read your command before assuming the tool is broken.
2. Shell Was Not Executing Commands Properly
What Happened
Before fixing the curl typo, my terminal kept re-running a script every time I pressed Enter.
Commands like curl, ls, and even simple echo weren’t executing.

Diagnosis
I checked running processes:

ps -f
This confirmed no script was running — meaning the shell had finally returned to normal.

Fix
Once the shell was behaving normally, commands executed correctly again.

What I Learned
When the terminal behaves strangely, check the running processes.
A stuck shell can mimic “broken commands.”
ps -f is a quick way to confirm whether a script is hijacking your session.
3. Running the Installer Without Flags
What I Tried
I ran the installer normally:

sudo bash wazuh-install.sh
Issue
The script only displayed the help menu.
Newer Wazuh versions require you to explicitly choose an installation mode.

Fix
I selected the All‑In‑One mode:

sudo bash wazuh-install.sh -a
What I Learned
Wazuh no longer defaults to AIO mode.
The help menu isn’t an error — it’s telling you what it needs.
Always read installer output carefully before assuming something is wrong.
4. Ubuntu Version Not in Recommended List
What Happened
The installer stopped with:

ERROR: The current system does not match the recommended list.
Use -i|--ignore-check to skip this check.
My VM was running a newer Ubuntu version than Wazuh officially supports.

Fix
I combined both required flags:

sudo bash wazuh-install.sh -a -i
This bypassed the OS check and allowed the installation to continue.

What I Learned
Compatibility warnings aren’t always blockers — especially in lab environments.
The installer tells you exactly how to bypass checks safely.
Combining flags is often necessary for advanced installers.
Final Working Command
sudo bash wazuh-install.sh -a -i
This triggered the full installation of:

Wazuh Indexer
Wazuh Manager
Filebeat
Wazuh Dashboard
Skills Learned in Part 1
Troubleshooting shell execution issues
Understanding curl flags and download behaviour
Reading installer help menus and interpreting errors
Using flags to control installer behaviour
Bypassing compatibility checks safely
Understanding the Wazuh installation workflow
Evidence of part one :

image
